# QueueConstrainedPacking
Code for queue constrained packing problem with loading constraints

The "QueueConstrainedPacking" github repository contains a Java project consisting of code for solving a vehicle ferry based loading problem. We refer to this problem as "Queue Constrained Packing". The code provided in this repository accompanies an article, yet to be published, entitled "Queue-constrained packing: a vehicle ferry case study". Details and previous publications are available at "https://www.southampton.ac.uk/dpfi/".

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This repository includes several directories which contain the inputs/outputs generated by the code. 

Input directories: 
-"experiments": Contains experiment files.
-"simFilesRectangle": Contains details regarding the shape of the "Rectangle" shaped ferry.
-"simFilesRF": Contains details regarding the shape of a more realistic shaped ferry "RF".
-"testClassInstances": Contains the details of the benchmark set of instances considered in Section 7 of the accompanying article. The first line of each file specifies the length and width of the rectangular ferry, subsequent lines specify (quantity, length, width and height) of the vehicle types to be loaded onto the ferry. 
-"testInstances": Contains the distributions of vehicles types used to generate the instances defined in the directory "testClassInstances". The first line specifies the length of all possible vehicle types, the second line specifies their widths, the third line their heights, and the fourth line speicifies their selection probability. The selection probabilities aim at generating instances in which the floor area consumed by each vehicle type is equal. Random instances are generated by selecting vehicles sequentially according their selection probabilities until the total area of the selected vehicles exceeds to the total available area on the ferry.

Ouput directories
-"results": Contains files summarising the results of completed experiments.
-"resultsRB": (depreciated) Contains results for experiment involving a simple FCFS queuing policy.
-"bestSolutionsGP": Contains details and diagrams regarding the best solutions, in terms of space utilisation, generated using the "GPE" packing method.
-"bestSolutionsSGCKS": Contains details and diagrams regarding the best solutions, in terms of space utilisation, generated using the "SOPE" packing method.

Source code
-"src": Contains the java code.

-------------------------------

In order to describe what this code does we will refer to a set of example experiments. In all case it required that the entire repository is downloaded into a java project.

Example 1: Solve all instances for a single arrival scenario using the "SOPE" packing methodology.

To implement this example run the code "RunProgsExpLoop.java" with "String[] fileNames={"/experiments/allInstancesSOPE.txt"};

Example 2: Solve all instances for a single arrival scenario using the "GPE" packing methodology.

To implement this example run the code "RunProgsExpLoop.java" with "String[] fileNames={"/experiments/allInstancesGP.txt"};

Example 3: Solve a single instance using the "GPE" packing methodology for different numbers of yard queues. This example best illustrates the underlying reason for this investigation (Fewer queues constrains the packing/loading problem more).

To implement this example run the code "RunProgsExpLoop.java" with "String[] fileNames={"/experiments/numberOfLanesDemo.txt"};

Example 4: Solve a single instance for 15 training arrival scenarios using the "GPE" packing methodology for the "VMI" objective and for a simple "FCFS" queuing policy. This example corresponds to part of Figure 8 of the associated article.

To implement this example run the code "RunProgsExpLoop.java" with "String[] fileNames={"/experiments/Fig8_nLanesRuleBasedVersusProposedApproachVMI.txt"};

Example 5: Solve all instances for a single arrival scenario using the "bottom left decreasing" packing method.
To implement this example run the code "SolveInstancesUsingBottomLeftIgnoringArrivalOrder.java" with "String[] fileNames={"/experiments/allInstancesBLDecreasing.txt"};

More examples corresponding to Figures 9, 10 and 11 of the associated article.

Figure 9:
String[] fileNames={"/experiments/Fig9_ObjComparisonRect2RepeatJuly2019Obj0VMI_LS_finishing_touch.txt",
"/experiments/Fig9_ObjComparisonRect2RepeatJuly2019Obj1EXP_LS_finishing_touch.txt",
"/experiments/Fig9_ObjComparisonRect2RepeatJuly2019Obj0VMI_No_LS_finishing_touch.txt",
"/experiments/Fig9_ObjComparisonRect2RepeatJuly2019Obj1EXP_No_LS_finishing_touch.txt",};

			
Figures 10 and 11:
String[] fileNames={"/experiments/Figs10_11_RobustnessTestRectJuly2019Obj0VMI.txt",
"/experiments/Figs10_11_RobustnessTestRectJuly2019Obj1EXP.txt",};
